CSS Animations
CSS Animations help to animate elements from one frame to another. Controlling various CSS properties helps in changing the animation style and time without having the need to use JavaScript for the same.

The most basic way to do so is by using “from” and “to”.

 

Eg:

@keyframes demo {
            from {
                background-color: red;
            }
            to {
                background-color: blue;
            }
        }

1. Animation Name
To identify the animation we assign it with the name. In the above example the name was demo. So, we will add the attribute animation name in the div element.

Syntax: div{animation-name: demo;}

2. Key Frames
Keyframes define at what % of the animation, which stylesheet rules should be used. The value of keyframes varies from 0% to 100%.

To add keyframes use the % operator with the value inside the keyframes. More keyframes mean smoother animation.

 3. Looping Animations
By default the animation runs only one time on the website but you can choose to loop the animation by using the “animation-iteration-count” property. 

Syntax: {animation-iteration-count: value;}

4. Animation Durations
Animation Duration is the key property to start the animations. By default, the animation duration is 0 sec, which means the animation won’t start.

Syntax: animation-duration: value(in sec);

5. Other Properties
Animation Delay 
Delays the start of animation on the website. Adding a negative value to delay will make the animation run even before the website is loaded.
Eg:

{animation-delay: -2s;}


Animation Direction
This property defines the order of the animation. Whether it should be played forward, reverse or alternatively. The values it takes is: 

normal: the default state of forward animation.
reverse: plays the animation in the reverse direction.
alternate: forward animation and then backward.
alternate-reverse: reverse animation and then forward.
 

Syntax: {animation-direction: value;}

Animation Timing Function
It defines the speed curve for the animation. This property adds ease to our animation and can have the following values: ease, linear, ease-in, ease-out, and ease-in-out.

Syntax: animation-timing-function: value;

Animation Fill Mode
This property defines the style of the element when the animation is either stopped or about to start. 
Syntax: animation-fill-mode: value;

Animation ShortHand
We’ve seen shorthand properties for other CSS properties and the same can be applied to Animation too.

Eg:

animation: demo 5s ease-in 1s infinite normal both;


